we're breaking into our regular
programming with breaking news here a
leading Hamas official has told Al jazer
that the group has now accepted a
ceasefire proposal put forward by egy
Egyptian and Qatari mediators mediators
have been scrambling to negotiate a
ceasefire deal as Israel threatens an
offensive in gaza's southern city of
Rafa no later than this morning Israel
asked 100 told 100,000 Palestinians
living in eastern Rafa to evacuate the
area we're going to get over the next
few hours as much as we can about this
as much as we can understand and know
about this where we are right now to
repeat if you're just joining us is that
Hamas has communicated that it is
accepting a ceasefire proposal and it
has said this to the two main
negotiators which are Qatar and Egypt as
you know negotiations have been taking
place recently in the Egyptian Capital
Cairo Tarak abaz is joining us from
inside the Gaza Strip you're in Rafa
Tark first of all are you hearing
anything on your end about
this yes what we do hear is that that uh
hamash movement has told Al jazer that
they have agreed on the ceasefire
proposal being initiated by the regional
mediators including Egypt and Qatar the
uh the the head of the chief of the
political Bureau is Hanah has been
calling the head of the Egyptian
intelligence informing and delivering
the positive response from the movement
regarding the proposal being initiated
by the Egyptian authorities now clearly
as a result of that decision
Palestinians as they hear this
announcement by Hamas they have been
cating that the announcement was a clear
positive step being taken from the
Palestinian side as they are completely
happy that this step can help to prevent
a potential military incursion for rafah
district now people right now here are
so happy and there is a great sense of
optimism among them as they are chanting
that it's time right now for return it's
time right now for a cease fire that is
right now the situation in RAF this area
that has been widely attacked since the
early hours of this morning now what we
do also hear among residents is that
they are so optimistic and happy about
this step as they are waiting for a
further confirmation from the isra side
about the possibility to approach to a
Seas fire dealers they are completely
debent right now on the efforts being
made by Regional mediators to bridge the
gaps of dis agreement between Hamas and
Israel in light of their ongoing hopes
to get to he official announcement for
the ceas fire within the coming hours or
days okay T help us help us take in the
scene around you because I'm I'm hearing
car horns I'm hearing people shouting
I'm hearing what sound like scenes of
elation and happiness take a moment to
look around you listen to what people
are saying what what exactly are are
they sharing what are the thoughts and
words that they're
sharing
yeah yeah now people here as I can s let
you see right now the cameraman is
moving the camera is that people are
celebrating now they are celebrating in
the entire vicinity of Al Kuwaiti
hospital they are so are happy about
that step that has been taken by the uh
Palestinian Side by Hamas movement
regarding their acceptance to the
ceasefire agreement now what we do hear
from residents is that they are chanting
for the peace they are chanting for the
return you can right now see how people
are celebrating you can see children you
can see how elderly people young men are
chanting and so excited about the
announcement of this from the Hamas side
they have been in fact under wide
attacks within the past couple of weeks
and days and there are right now
everyone including the children are
happy about that step because they
believe that Rafa Invasion will bring
unspeakable humanitarian catastrophe
where a blood bath will be but
now they are so optimistic and that was
completely no longer was afforded in the
past couple of days but now with this
announcement the situation on the the
ground sounds really uh optimistic about
this t as they are waiting to hear the
announcement as soon as possible T do
you think you're able to speak to
anybody around you go ahead take your
time and and you can translate to us if
they don't speak English do you think
you can speak to the people around you
so that we can we can hear their
thoughts and
reactions well right now um I will try
to host one of the Palestinians but
there are completely everyone is is
absolutely happy about this they are
they are just right now crazy about this
step that been taken as the appreciate
so much there is a great sense of
Happiness right now among those people
I'll try within the coming hours to
bring more Palestinians to speak about
how they evaluate this step on the
ground T the area where you are is uh
you've been there for a few weeks now
you've been pushed South multiple times
since the beginning of this conflict is
is one of the last areas where you know
so many Palestinians have been displaced
too and we're hoping it would be safe
but as we've reported countless times
hasn't been safe and Rafa continues to
be struck right now I see people uh
running around the streets and I see
more people around you than I've seen in
I think weeks what does that tell
us well uh generally the the vast
majority of gaza's population
in Rafa are completely experiencing
heavy bombardment from Land and Sea as
they have been going through really
difficult weeks but this announcement
right now for Palestinian is a kind of
bringing a a sense of relief and
Tranquility among Palestinians that they
might witness an end for the fighting
they are really believing that this
ongoing mounting pressure by the
American Administration and by Regional
mediators can be fruitful to stop the
conflict between Hamas and Israel they
are so exhausted they have been
completely traumatized in the course of
the past couple of months and they were
all the time asking about the time for
the ceasefire right now as the first
time ever they have been hearing an
official confirmation from Hamas sites
regarding the ceasefire agreement they
are absolutely optimistic as they
believe that this step will definitely
uh reduce the Caps of M and this
disagreement between Hamas and and it
will help to contribute to increase the
possibility for approaching to a
ceasefire agreement with in the
foreseeable
future Tara can I can I ask you how
you're feeling right now because you're
you're reporter yes and you give us the
facts as dispassionately and objectively
as you can and you've been doing this
for months but you're also a Palestinian
living in Gaza who's been yourself in
danger you've had to be displaced and
you've had to move your family and your
relatives multiple times how do you feel
right now hearing that Hamas has
accepted a ceasefire
[Music]
proposal well uh well what we do believe
is that we have been completely under
intense bombardment and uh we have been
going through really difficult times
including reporters including the crew
on the ground those displaced
Palestinians who are completely
celebrating including children women
elderly and every
in the Palestinian community that is an
opportunity to get a sense of relief and
even mitigation about this and in order
to know more about this we're are joined
right now by a Palestinian man who will
speak about how the situation and how
this kind of announcement will really
represent and means for
Palestinians what do you see and what do
you think of this announcement by Hamas
with regard
to accepting the Egyptian proposal for a
ceasefire this is very no and hopefully
would pave the way for the return return
to
Gaza do you expect that a deal would be
announced soon for a swap deal and a
declaration of ceasefire we hope we hope
Allah would facilitate this and we
return to our
homes where did you move from I am from
Gaza
itself would you like to go back after
they announce his fire and what do you
say to the world my message is that I
hope that we um have the patience and
return to
Gaza take another one right
now how do you see this announcement by
Hamas about the ceas fire first of all
praise be to Allah that they didn't
invade RAF and we greet the people of
Gaza for their saf and we would like to
thank all those who stood by our side
and by Gaza would like to go back home
where you were removed from yes from
BBA I am from Rafa
[Music]
now we are going to take another
Palestinian man uh um like how do you
see this kind of Announcement by Hamas
side it's very important for our isian
is and about Gaz we
went political isolation not just for
that we must to struggle to to have
abant from the Israel occupation to stop
the occupation to get and to
for that we must struggle and to see the
International
Community stop the is escalation
against this is the damage that have by
sty by the Air Forces by the military
all the weapons that used against G it's
very hble and very terrible for us for
that we see this ststem very important
for us and back to our houses and in
North Gaza or in the west of
Gaza our families very sadness in
this days but in this evening after this
announce uh we see the majority of our
people very
pleasure and uh do you expect that you
will return back to your house in the
north of the Gaza Strip when the
ceasefire will be announced we hope that
that all the families back to the their
houses this very important or to stay in
the Gaza in the north of Gaza it's very
dangerous for them and for our future
for that we hope to rebuilding uh the
universities our structure everything
that is damage and destroyed to uh build
thank you so much for your time and
we're going to take another Palestinian
young man to ask him about his
impression about this announcement from
Hamas side now how do you see this
announcement by Hamas regarding their
agreement and approval for the ceasefire
okay first of all thank you Mr T for
having me at this interview I want to
say that we feel so happy that finally
Hamas has agreed about about the
ceasefire but now we are waiting for
Israeli agreement and we hope that they
will say it it's after 212 days of
genocides of displacement of Killing
Children women and elderly and even
nurses and doctors it's not about
genocide it's not about it's about time
that we have shown the world we have
survived after this war after this war
it's not just a war by by Israel on
Palestinian it's a war from the world to
uh against the Palestinian here in Gaza
Gaza is so small but yet we have
survived 12 to 200 days uh from uh most
advanced technical weapons against us we
will not forget and we will not forgive
everything we have witnessed in this
world will written in the history the
Palestinian have survived and we will
survive until we get our freedom the
world is calling for freedom but we
don't find any freedom here and do you
want to return back to the house that
you were displaced from of course if we
travel what's uh what's the benefits of
our of our defending and surviving
there's no warant if we travel if we
lift our lands we have survived to to
return we have survived so we can call
for all freedoms thank you so much for
your uh valuable time and that's how
Palestinians here children uh young
people elderly are really seeing this
announcement being made and the approval
being made by the Hamas movement side as
everyone is really optimistic about the
next steps that might be taken within
the coming hours regarding the arrival
to a ceasefire to a ceasefire agreement
between Hamas and Israel that will help
to bring an end for the hardships and
all kinds of misery Palestinians have
been going
through
T your your previous guest was making a
very very important Point uh at this
particular point in time Hamas has
accepted uh they say that they've
accepted this ceasefire proposal by
Qatar and by Egypt we need that now to
hear from Israel I mean Israel has
signaled and its prime minister has
signaled multiple times that they were
going to invade Rafa come what may Deal
or No Deal so you know we need to know
we don't have a full picture of what is
actually what we're actually looking at
and what really is happening right now
until we hear from the Israeli side so I
I I just wanted to put that out there
for you the people you talk to and also
for our viewers you know who will be
tuning in trying to understand exactly
what's going on I want to ask you uh um
this T you have lived through multiple
Wars with Israel have you ever seen
scenes like the ones you are witnessing
now well serial personally I've been
experiencing multiple words we are
talking about
2009 aggression on the Gaza stet 2012
including 2014 which was really bloody
for me and 2021 escalations in 2022 and
right now 20 23 which from my own side
is considered to be the bloodiest I've
lost my house I've lost my entire city
that has completely turned into a bile
of raol we have been talking about being
internally displaced for multiple times
from a city to another in order to
guarantee the full safety of my on my
personal level and also on my family uh
uh level we have been talking about that
we have been unfolded with different
kinds of attacks from Land and Sea as we
have been lucky to survive till this
very moment as the gaza's STP has been
under wide military offensive since
October the 7th now uh we personally
have been doing our p in order to take
all the safety precautions but this war
sounds completely different in terms of
the unprecedented scale of Destruction
being caused on the entire Gaza Strip
alongside to the point that the number
of death uh TOS across the Gaza Strip is
so incredibly High we're talking about
more than 34,000 500 Palestinians being
killed till now with more than 70,000
Palestinians have been injured and that
did not happen in any kind of a previous
rounds of escalation and conflict
between Hamas and Israel but for the
vast majority of Palestinians there are
peace Seekers who are looking to live
peacefully in tranquil atmosphere as the
vast majority of us right now have been
exhausted from the deadly consequences
of this round of fighting that till now
there is no any end in sight for written
now with the positive response from
Hamas side we have been having more
clear picture about the initiative being
taken from the Palestinian side but the
vast majority of Palestinians are
waiting for further confirmation from
the Israeli side in order to get to a
concrete base of agreement between Hamas
and Israel just to bring an end of the
hostilities and to make a full sensation
of all military acts that bring nothing
to the ground but only
destruction so T I listened to what you
said you said you've been through five
Wars with Israel my question was have
you ever seen at the at the end of a war
and again we I don't know if that's what
we're looking at right now but have you
ever seen at any point during those Wars
or after those Wars or as they ended
have you ever seen the scenes like the
ones we're witnessing
now yes certainly I clearly remember
every single time that there was an
announcement for the end of the world
we've been talking about multiple
announcement being made under the same
circumstances throughout Regional
mediations that are completely has been
playing a very contributing role to end
an end to bring an end for the fighting
we every single time we see similar
scenes as what Palestinians right now
are doing celebrations chanting for
Freedom chanting for beast and that's
absolutely bring us back in memory to
the days that had witnessed a proper end
for the fighting a proper end for the
tragic stories and even a tragic moments
Palestinians have been going through and
that I absolutely believe that it we
might witness such similar kinds of
moments and announcement within the
coming days if Israel was so serious
about bringing uh a pce uh bringing a
deal to the table and accept the
proposal being initiated by the regional
mediators I'm watching the I'm watching
people behind you where are they going
now they are just uh going to their
relatives informing them that Hamas has
agreed on the proposal they are trying
to uh let's say to spread the news among
their members of the community and right
now they are chanting saying that it's
time of return they are trying to
celebrate you don't know that people
here have been living in mchf shelters
which have been under wide military
bombardment the vast majority have lost
their family uh relatives their beloved
ones their friends their even uh loved
close people to their heart spot they
despite of that all kinds of loss that
they have been going through they are
happy again when they firstly hear the
announcement by Hamas side regarding the
approval it means that those people only
what do they think about is an end for
the fighting and that's absolutely a
part of who they really are a part of
their own identity that they are only
looking for Peace On The Ground they
have been living peacefully sadly the
were rupted more attacks on the ground
being internally displaced and ending up
right now with Rafa which has been
designated by the military that it's
going to be a safe Zone and now with the
first step being taken by the Israeli
side to invade RAF people has reached to
unpreceded level of dispear and even
frustration but now this announcement
has really recalled and refueled the
spirit of optimism among Palestinians
who are really looking forward to hear a
proper announcement of the ceasefire
within the coming
hours all right T thank you so much
you've been walking us through the last
20 minutes of reactions these
spontaneous manifestations of joy and
Elation that we're seeing really across
the Gaza strippet scenes we're seeing
the people walk behind you you're in
Rafa of course uh we saw the scenes at
the alaa hospital if yous are watching
that big the the the biggest window on
your screen we saw the alaa hospital
that's in central Gaza in derl Bala uh
uh that's top right on your screen right
now and the very latest pictur is in the
center so spontaneous
eruption of Joy across the Gaza Strip
where it's just past 8:00 p.m. as
Palestinians learned that Hamas had
accepted the ceasefire deal uh proposed
by the mediators Egypt and
Qatar make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer